I'm freaking out!

No seriously this is awesome

11/2/14

	I can’t really write this blog without a little bit of a back story, as it is the framing to my current feelings on going into this wild experience that is Dev Bootcamp.  I have been a restaurant manager for the last 7 years. Over these 7 years I have really had some great experiences and opportunities. I’ve ate at some of the greatest restaurants in the world, I’ve made cocktails on morning TV, and I met so many celebrities it has lost it’s excitement for me. With the joys of the job have come lots of hardships too. The grueling ever changing schedule, missing holidays, family events, and not taking part in society at appropriate hours is all things that came with the territory.  For so long now I have felt like this is what I am good at and I must continue to move forward in this field, because what else am I going to do. I never stopped and asked if this made me happy.  Did I feel challenged? Was I happy with what I was doing or the people I was surrounding myself with? The answer was no. I felt lost and not sure what I could do about it. I am an avid news reader and read an article about Dev Bootcamp. On a whim I decided I was going to apply. I knew that only 10% of applicants were accepted and thought there is no way I was going to fall in to that 10%. At this time I had already started on codecademy for a few weeks. The only thing I knew was I knew nothing about coding. Yeah I could write a if this than that statement but that doesn’t make me special or a genius. My interview was great. I was so nervous my stomach was in knots. It went really well. I read and translated all of the code for the most part.  The engineering questions went great and interviewer and I really connected.  I was feeling good but still didn’t think I was getting in. I got accepted and signed up for Phase 0.
	One week after I was to start Phase 0 I was approached with an opportunity to open my own restaurant in Andersonville.  I was torn. I wanted to get out the restaurant business, but this was a chance to have something of my own.  I decided after talking with Dev Bootcamp that I was going to push back my start date and give the restaurant a go.  Unfortunately or fortunately depending on how I am feeling, the investors and I could not come to terms to make it happen.  So now I was without a job, spent most of my tuition money on lawyers and supplies for trying to open the restaurant. I was lost. I began soul searching and asked myself what do I really want to do?
	I decided that I was going to change my life. I don’t want my life to be about chasing money and things anymore.  I am not willing to sacrifice my happiness anymore for these things. I dropped everything. I started working out, reading, studying code, and meeting new people. I came up with a plan on how I was going to fund Dev Bootcamp and have been on that mission ever since. I’m not doing this to learn code or get a high paying job. I am doing this to change my life. To seek fulfillment. To create beautiful and wonderful things with amazing people. I’m doing this for a better quality of life.
	One of the reasons I love what Shereef was saying in some of the videos on the website was that this isn’t just about learning to code, it’s about learning to communicate, learning balance in life, and learning to be part of a community. These are the ideals I am looking for. I want to surround myself with people that want to be better and are actively seeking this fulfillment.
	With all of that said I see myself embracing this DBC environment fully. I have already drank the Kool-aide. I have bought all in and am ready for anything. I am the guy that is literally typing command line prompts 20 times and saying them out loud. This is something that I previously might have said “I don’t need to do that, I got it, who will know?”. Now I am on board and bought in to this program and want to soak every positive thing I can from the teachers, my fellow classmates, and anyone else who is willing to share their knowledge with me.
	I don’t think my expectations for the program have changed as much as they have for myself. I see the scope of work is serious. I also see that there is completing the assignments and then there is fully grasping the concepts and going that extra step for the full experience of knowing something. 
	Shereef’s words on the feelings of students coming in was so dead on with me that I can’t begin to tell you how comforting it was to know that he and Dev Bootcamp know how I am feeling and are going to be supportive and understanding. I am frightened as can be that I got in on some fluke or a accident. I’m scared that no matter how much I study and try in phase 0 that I am going to show up and be seen as a fraud and everyone is going to know that I shouldn’t be there. Hearing him say that I am not the first person to feel this way and that there will be at least one thing that I comprehend better than someone else and can hopefully help them with just made me take a deep breath and roll my shoulders back. All I can do at this point is follow the program and put all that I can in this. No one is going to get in my way but myself and I will not allow this to happen.
	I am so excited about this I can’t even begin to verbalize all of my emotions. Am I the only person that is so excited that I have already contemplated first day outfits?  I have been trying to tell everyone I can about this. I will admit that it is getting old trying to explain the concept of coding prior to telling people what I am about to do. It’s kind of like telling a joke and then explaining the punch line, it loses charm then.
	In closing I am overwhelmed with excitement for this journey I am about embark on. It’s almost not real. I am so excited to change my life and buy all in to Dev Bootcamp. I can’t wait to meet all the wonderful people that will be joining me in this once in a lifetime experience.