Make your own version and Git on Github now!

Explaining the wonders of version control, Git, and Github

11/2/14

	First off welcome to my first blog post of my first week of Dev Bootcamp Phase 0. I’m so excited to be apart of this and can’t say enough about the anxiety, excitement, fear, and overall joy I am feeling. Enough about me lets get to it.
	I learned a lot this week and some of the most interesting things I learned were some of the industry standards that are being used.  The first thing to talk about with this is more of a philosophy or a method than say a technology. Version control is something that I believe now is being used in many industries not just specifically software development and is something I am kicking myself for not using in my previous profession.
	Version control is the idea of controlling and protecting final products while allowing multiple drafts to be worked on and submitted for changes towards this product. This means that small changes can be made and tested. If you don’t like version 2, you can go right back to version 1 and making version 2 again or even version 3. So this idea allows room for experimenting, collaboration, editing, and maintenance. If you are not using version control something as small a changing a title could crash your whole project and make it very hard to identify where the problem lies. When different versions are created and altered it is great to have notes as to why, when, and by who these changes were made. The industry standard tool for version control software in software development is Git.
	Git is a powerful tool that was developed to replace a previous version control software called BitKeeper. It was developed by the same man that created Linux.  The intention of Git was to make distributed, non-linear workflows in version control software. This mean essentially to make a system that allows you to make versions on your own machine that could be distributed out to either other people or the internet. Also, there could be multiply versions that existed but in no way affected each other without being merged into a new version.  One of the best features of Git is that it logs and tracks all changes.  Every time a change or commit is made it is tracked in Git with the date, notes from the user, and highlighted areas where changes were made. This is such valuable information for any programmer, but is the most beneficial when collaborating.  As, many people can be working on the same project and no changes will be made without being logged. Now what if I wanted to be able to remotely share my project with a community or make it remotely accessible from any where in the world. Git is only run on your local machine and distributed by the user which gives Git certain limitations.
	These limitations are expanded on by another industry standard and open source community favorite github.com . Github is exactly as it sounds a hub for Git files. Think of this as a drop box for Git files.  Github makes your Git projects available in folders called repositories or repos for short.  There are several ways to have your projects posted within your user account on Github, first is privately. When you privately post a project on Github you can choose who can view, clone, fork, or commit changes.  This is great with collaborating with a team on a private project.  The second option for posting a project on Github is the public option.  This allows the Github community to access your project.  They can comment, help, add, change, use, duplicate, borrow small pieces, or just about anything depending on the license you attach to your project.
	Git and Github are both great tools that I can only imagine help programmers around the world keep a bit more sanity by being able to properly and easily have a strong version control method. If you are new to programming I strongly suggest getting on Github as soon as possible and start poking around.  Take a look at some public code and just try reading it. There is so much out there why not start now.

